Specifically Dzogchen Dzogchen practice. Why we need this Dzogchen practice? Because
we need break down the dualities. Our duality mind, the happy depression is fired up
way from the beginning of times. It's so strong, so thick, it's just a message to break down that
and prepared our heart to more maturity. When planting the seed or trying to break the seed
and sprout of the Buddha nature or the enlightenment, we need good soil, good palm, good areas.
So this Dzogchen practice, all were made ourself more prepared to Dzogchen practice and to develop
the realization of the humanity. So conducted Dzogchen practice, those are really very important.
And there was together we need devotions, joy and appreciation, devotions. Dzogchen is
monetized when we're intellectual or when we're skeptical and duality can't have a hard-headed
thought. Your other kind of Dzogchen is off. Kind of like so what's called this, so.
Not a problem. But it's a kind of all kind of this and nothing. It's not really, I mean,
basically what that's not smart. Heavy Dzogchen is not smart. Smart, you're fully yourself.
Kind of have that attitude never my life because we're all equal. Even not just equal, maybe I'm
better than others too because we deep down we have the ego clinging, the ignorance, ego clinging.
Ego clinging is self-important, self-centered mind. And we kind of self-distended thought,
attitude in our mind. So we feel kind of I'm quite good. Good, I'm good. I am kind of
that's it. That's it really. You can't feel that. And you have the devotion. That means you're
leaning
that ego. Let it be bending. Let it be bending. Let it not stand like this, bending. And that
many people don't want. Ego is about self-important, that. Or why we need this, that. But according
to
spiritual, according to Dharma, without slowing down, knocking down the ego clinging, you will not
get realizations. And without the devotions, there is no realization will come. Dzogchen
realizations comes. Ego is interference. Interference. Erogance is interference. When we
have the arrogance, we don't see the good call it for others. And we don't see the bad call it is
what ours are. Always looking others, trying to point, trying to target their arrows. In a debate
they're saying, in your own face, they're just really they're saying, your own face,
yuck, yuck, yuck animal is going on your own face. You don't see that, but you see small, what's
called, leash. Lice. Lice. Lice is going the other side, other face, you see. You see the face,
lice going first or others, but you don't see yuck is moving on your own face.
Face. This is really true. That's the religion saying that. That's it. We don't kind of look
ourself and we're always trying to pick up others, this and that, this and that, and then make the
gossips, this and that, make all the difference come, spreading that bigger and bigger and bigger.
Bigger. This is what how really duality. So therefore, to break down, softening our duality
and ego-cling devotion is so important. Particular practices in the dharma and particular
realization is really is so, so important. And for that reason, Grand Master Sarasai in his
teaching,
whoever have the devotion of his blessings, blessings from the lineage masters, that person
will gain the realization right in that moment. And you look at the life story of the Munaripas,
how every song that we need to join, he prays to the Marpa. And he said, "Marpa is the embodiment
attributes I praise to them." And even they don't call the names of the Marpa. He said, "The
kindness
ones, gracious ones, kindness ones, gracious ones, because I show that direct the nature of the
mind
and break out of the samsara mat to the enlightenment state so we can be one of the
beneficial beings to all the beings." All the beings, that's what what is said, "gracious ones,
who is the embodiment of the acchobias." And it is the life stories of the lunkipas,
or jimmy lunkipas, and their songs, each song, same thing.
Oh, friends, you say, "The teacher who is embodiment, or who is the old Indian brother,
referring to the brother, some of the brothers." It's a strong devotion. When you have that strong
devotion, then you get strong realization. That's the stories in the teaching. Say, at one time,
Atisha came to me, when she came to me, said, "One great man came to Atisha, asking, 'Oh, great
teacher, please give me blessings.'" Blessings. And Atisha said, "All ladies,
students, give me the devotion." So she said, "The student, or maybe not lady, lose, lose, L-O-S-E,
or
loses, not too tight, tight. Losing the student, give me devotion." Devotions. When you have the
devotion, you receive the blessings. If you don't have the devotion, then the blessing is a job.
There's no blessings usually. That's it. If you want blessings, you have divorces. That's really
the advantage. And again, that's one of the teaching, the great master, the owner of the
schools of the Chirveda Buddhism. His name is Chobhaji Kismu. He said, "The sunlight of the
devotions is not shining into the snow mountain of the glaciers. There is no blessing or water will
come, blessing or water will come. When the blessing and water and water don't come, then
how we can partilize or grow, grow of the enlightenment." So those are all, I mean,
important. And for that, also, there is the great teacher, Bhadakar Khemu, himself, on the ticam.
This, of course, is not just only one using them.
The realization of the Absolute Truth relies on devotions. Devotions, that's a shari term.
The realization of the Absolute Truth only will come by the devotions. Devotions are fed, F-A-I-T-H
, fed.
So therefore, the devotional is really important. For those reasons, to invoke the devotions
is then calling on our path, and we join. Before we do the meditation, we say, "Well, I'll pray."
All those we're joining, some are praying, some are praying, but in reality, we're invoking our dev
otions,
our joy and appreciation. I'm calling on our path is invoking the devotions. And for that reason,
great-master, he's only going to say. And also, the problem is the same thing. He's calling on our
path.
It's not the prayer to the gurus, but the devotion is the prayer to the gurus.
The devotion is really so important. We have to have the spiritual realization, the Dhamma
realization.
We have to, kind of like, don't carry course of the ego-cling and self-emotant and kind of like
self-destructive attitude of that arrogant regime of thought and subnet and bring up genuinely
all that respect and appreciation. And these devotions is so important. So I have the devotions
and all those beautiful things as we make it. And then I sit down on the cushion or sitting on the
chair and then with very good postures. And the Dokki teaching always said, and many of you know
how many of you know that because in the teaching, it's the essence, the hard essence of the
practice
of the tukkuk that you said I mentioned many times, but I'm going to again here to remind you that
that's called three immovables, three immovables. Immovable of the voting,